If you've got a 250 mile range pack
you need four thousand cycles.
It's very achievable. We already do that
with a stationary storage solutions like
PowerPack. We already deploy PowerPack
with 4000 cycle life capability.
Hey this is Warren Redlich. Let's talk
about Tesla's upcoming super battery!
Ultra super crazy awesome battery -
Coming from Tesla really soon. Tesla is
developing batteries that are capable of
not only 1 million miles, but we may see
battery life up to 5 million miles. This
is a super long battery life. We are also
going to see batteries that charge from 20%
of charge up to 80% of charge in less
than five minutes. Super Fast Super
Charging. We're going to see increased
battery densities, up from the current
250 watt hours per kilogram in the Model 3
up to as high as 500 watt hours per
kilogram or more. The increased energy
density of the batteries mean either
lighter weight battery packs with the
same range, or similar weight battery
packs with much longer range. If Tesla
goes with lighter batteries with the
same range, that means Tesla will have
more batteries to be able to make more
cars. We're also going to see much faster,
super-fast production of batteries.
Battery production is going to increase
more than 50 percent a year. One of the
first things to understand is how Tesla
gets to 1 million miles in their battery
pack and this is actually believe it or
not easy. Currently it's common to see a
250-mile battery pack in a Tesla Model 3
or a Tesla Model Y. If you add to that,
that the battery is able to achieve
4000 cycles - 4000 cycles
meaning from zero battery charge to
100% battery charge and back.
If Tesla is able to achieve
4000 battery cycles - which believe it
or not they're already accomplishing in
their research - this will happen. If you
get 4000 battery cycles with a
250-mile pack, that's 1 million miles
4000 times 250 is 1 million
miles. But it doesn't stop there. The
Tesla Model S is already approaching
400 miles. A 400-mile battery pack.
They're at 390 now.
If you do a 400-mile battery pack with
4000 cycles you get 1.6 million miles.
1.6 million miles. Take it to the next
level up. The top-of-the-line Cyber Truck
model the 3 motor (tri-motor) Cyber Truck is
expected to have a 500 mile range. If you
do 4,000 cycles with a 500 mile range
that's 2 million miles of range.
2 million miles of battery life on
that car. But we get more. The Roadster is
projected to have 600 miles of range. 600
miles with a 4,000 cycle battery pack is
2.4 million miles of battery life in the
Tesla Roadster. But it's going to get
better than that.
So there are two battery chemistry
developments that have happened fairly
recently that will take Tesla well
beyond 4000 cycles of battery life. In
the earlier days of lithium-ion
batteries for electric vehicles there
was a problem. If you use the battery
from zero - you drove the battery down to
0% and then you charge it up to 100%
You have this cycle where you're fully
draining the battery and fully charging
the battery. That process puts the most
stress on a lithium-ion battery.
It stresses the battery materials badly and
the cycle life is worse. It turns out
with the earlier battery chemistries, if
you kept the car between the battery
between 40% to 60% - you
charged it up to 60% - you drove it down
to 40% and you charged it up to 60%,
that's when you got maximum battery
cycle life. The batteries would last a
long time because you weren't straining
the underlying materials inside the
battery. The problem is that only going
from 40 to 60% means you're only getting
20% of your range, so if you have a 200
let's say a 300 mile battery pack that
means you can only go 60 miles a day
before you recharge. And that doesn't -
that's not what people are hoping for
with EVs. Temperature is also an issue -
in the early days, and really the current
days of electric vehicles
the temperature has
a big effect on how the battery life
lasts. When you have higher temperatures
the batteries don't last as long. Tesla
is very good about managing temperature
during life of the battery to keep that
battery life longer. "I mean we are super
deep on cell - Super Deep -  cell through
battery.
That rabbit hole goes down pretty far. Man do we know a lot about batteries.
We do have a decade - lots of
experience of not just like what a cell
should be but how to integrate into the
product and that's really helpful. Yeah
absolutely how to manage the cell,
module, battery and through different
weather conditions and different
environmental and different charge regimes and ...
Wow we really know a lot about batteries!
There are new materials - new battery chemistries -
that are making this problem much less
important and going to extend battery
life. In research they start with pouch
cells that come typically from a factory
in China. That pouch cell has no
electrolyte additives in it. The
researchers add different electrolytes
and play around to see what gives them
more battery life - what allows the cells
to last longer. What prevents - what
different electrolytes limit the
problems created by battery chemistry
and charge cycles and storing at full limits.
What the research showed was that
choosing the right electrolyte additives
makes a massive massive difference in
how long those batteries will last.
How long they will retain capacity. How well
they will retain capacity over time
storing battery charge, and over cycle
life charging out discharging the
battery to zero and charging the battery
up to 100%. They still don't have a
great theoretical understanding of why
one electrolyte works and why another
electrolyte doesn't. What really makes
this all work.
They just keep trying different
materials to see what works and they
have some insights into - they see one
material working well. This other
material is similar in some ways. Let's
try this. And they're looking for
something called Coulombic inefficiency.
When you have more coulombic
inefficiency - inefficiency is bad - then
the battery doesn't last
long. The capacity fails quicker. In the
process of doing their research they
found some electrolyte additives that
made a huge difference. The important
thing to understand about the chemistry
research - because there's a lot going on
There's a lot of different chemistry
issues. Every battery has a cathode, an
anode, and electrolytes in the middle. And
there are different materials being
tried out, and this has been going on for
years now. Different materials being
tried out, both in the cathode, the anode
and in the electrolytes.
"Although something is called Lithium-Ion, the actual
percentage of lithium in a lithium-ion cell
is approximately 2%. Our cells should be
called nickel - nickel graphite because
the primary constituent in the
cathode is - or the cell as a whole - is
nickel. On the anode side it's it's
graphite with silicon oxide and then
there's a little bit of lithium in
there, but it's kind of like the - it's
like the salt on the salad. Small
percentage of the mass. It's still
important to avoid supply constraints
and to make sure that the tail doesn't
like a dog on cost. Though the main
determinants of the cost of the cell are
the price of nickel in the form that we
need it and there's a little bit
of cobalt and some aluminum. And then the
cost of the synthetic graphite with the
silicon oxide coating." Some research is
pushing towards lithium iron phosphate
batteries for some uses. There's a lot of
push in nickel manganese cobalt both
nickel manganese cobalt 532 which is
50 percent nickel, 30% manganese, and
20 percent cobalt. There's now a shift to
NMC 811 which is 80 percent nickel,
10 percent manganese and 10 percent cobalt.
That has two big benefits. One it reduces
the amount of cobalt. Reducing cobalt on
its own has big benefits because cobalt
is both expensive and troublesome. The
NMC 811 chemistry appears to have
higher energy density which means
lighter batteries can hold more storage.
They can hold more energy which
means the battery  - you'll have more range in a
car. The other issues relate to the
electrolyte additives.
What's going on in the space between the
cathode and anode. Putting different
additives in the batteries makes a huge
difference. And a third thing is single
crystal materials in the electrodes. If
they use the normal materials that have
been used in electrodes that are not
single crystal, they're polycrystalline
materials. The different materials expand
and contract and in the process of doing
that it causes micro cracking and that
micro cracking dramatically reduces the
number of cycles that you can get out of
a battery. At the same time there's two
big issues that researchers have found
one is if you store a battery at full it
tends to lose compact capacity faster
but there have been some improvements in
cell chemistry's that allow batteries to
retain capacity longer even while
remaining full another big issue is the
charge discharge cycle as the battery
fills up and goes back down and as if
battery charges and discharges you're
filling the battery up with energy
you're discharging energy from the
battery to power the the wheels of the
car then the charge discharge cycles
tend to cause a problem called micro
cracking particularly when you use
polycrystalline materials in the anodes
more recently researchers have found
that single crystal materials that these
single crystal materials are expanding
and contracting they expand and contract
but they're not pushing against other
crystals nearby they're seated in carbon
black and it ends up dramatically
reducing the micro cracking so you get
more a lot more cycles and we're seeing
as much as eight thousand cycles with
minimal loss of battery capacity in some
applications I'd like to tell you that
researchers are going to come up with
one magic battery solution that's going
to be the perfect battery for every
situation
but I don't think that's the case and I
don't think it's important we're seeing
with with Tesla doing these new
batteries with C ATL yes they're lower
energy density but those batteries cycle
better they retain their capacity longer
even with substantial charge discharge
cycling so it makes sense that
different batteries would be used in
different circumstances for example the
batteries you might use for energy
storage to store energy from solar or
wind to backup the grid the types of
batteries you might use for that would
be different or could be different from
the batteries you would use in a
high-performance sports car and that
might be different from the batteries
you would use in a tractor-trailer in
the Tesla semi so I think we're going to
see different applications for different
uses just as an example the Tesla semi
you would expect that those are driving
very long distances and they're
expensive and you want them to last for
a very long time you want them to be
able to go a lot of miles so the type of
battery that most supports a long
mileage a long life process would be
particularly good for Tesla semi
something like the lithium iron
phosphate batteries that Tesla is
working with CIT L in China on might be
very very appropriate for Tesla semi at
the same time something that does a high
out a high fast charging and fast
discharging approach if you think about
something like the Tesla Roadster where
performance is everything then the goal
of a long battery cycle life is not very
important sports cars aren't typically
driven for hundreds of thousands of
miles you would be happy to get getting
a half a million miles on a Tesla
Roadster would be fantastic
so it seems sensible that Tesla would
tweak the battery chemistry and approach
to handling the Tesla Roadster so that
it would have high discharge rates it
would be able to put a lot of power out
really fast to dramatically improve
performance same thing with the Model S
plat power train maybe the cyber truck
tri-motor the goal here is to be able to
get very very high performance because
that's what people are paying for in a
performance model if you're going for a
vehicle like the semi or perhaps like a
regular Tesla Model S or a model through
your model why you may be thinking you
know we're not shooting here for high
performance not that the performance
would be bad but that's not the primary
goal a third thing that occurred to me
was with something like Tesla
which is gonna have a really large
number of batteries it would make sense
to have more than one charging port
rather than just charging in one spot
you could have let's say four separate
battery packs in the larger semi the
semi would be large enough they would be
able to hold it doesn't need the energy
density because it's so large so you
could use lithium iron phosphate and you
could have maybe four battery packs each
one of them charging separately which
would allow it to charge much quicker
because you're charging out of four
ports in one recent research paper a
group of battery researchers were able
to achieve well over five thousand
cycles of charge discharge full
discharge discharge from zero percent
all the way to 100 percent obtaining
over five thousand cycles with minimal
loss of battery capacity maybe 96 97
percent battery capacity remaining after
5300 cycles this is just amazing this is
fantastic results so at this point we're
out to well over a five thousand full 0
to 100 charge/discharge cycles with well
over ninety percent battery capacity
retention at the end of the battery's
life you know after five thousand cycles
more than five thousand cycles so
putting the worst kind of strain on
these batteries in terms of both
temperature and charge discharge cycling
and storage capacity
you still get nearly three million
kilometres or one / 1.5 million miles of
battery life and that's on a 200-mile
battery pack and it lasts over 20 years
so now when you throw in improved
electrolyte additives and single crystal
materials we are talking about
approaching 8,000 cycles the battery
life will last 8,000 cycles this is huge
this is massive this is amazing we
started out hoping for 4000 cycles we
are art we know we're already at 4000
cycles but down the road we're gonna get
to 8,000 cycles and eight thousand
cycles matters another huge development
in progress is improvements in energy
density the current generation of
battery technology gets to maybe 250
watt hours per kilogram in the Tesla
Model 3 or the Tesla Model Y but we're
about to see a revolution with a
substantial increase in energy
density a lot of people think the next
level is going to be 330 watt hours per
kilogram I think we're gonna get there
very soon but not far down the road
maybe two or three years we're gonna hit
400 and then 500 watt hours per kilogram
so if you imagine the Tesla Model 3 that
currently has a 300 let's say a 300 mile
battery pack just use a simple example
if you take that 300 mile battery pack
and you say you know what we've got
twice the energy density you can now
either take the same amount of battery
weight and get a 600 mile battery in a
Tesla Model 3 or you can say you know
what we don't need to use as much
battery mass in the Tesla Model 3 you
cut the mass of the battery down from
the current weight you cut it in half
and you're dramatically reducing the
weight that the Model 3 has to carry
while maintaining the same range so on
the one side you could say we're gonna
see a 600 mile + Model 3 and you could
look at the Tesla Model S and say we're
gonna see an 800 mile Tesla Model S the
other side of it is we're able to make
cars in a more battery efficient manner
that the design of the cars ultimately
changes because you don't need as much
structure to hold the mass of a larger
battery pack and the battery pack ends
up being more efficient and you see a
Tesla Model 3 perhaps getting 350 or 400
miles of range with a battery pack that
weighs half as much and you save
hundreds of pounds of weight on the car
if you really get into it getting 500
watt hours per kilogram may make it more
possible to have electric airplanes but
Elon has been pretty clear that Tesla's
not going to go there with that it takes
a massive amount of effort to do any one
of these things you can't do it all
Tesla is going to make similar progress
on its battery materials pushing that
nickel cobalt aluminum there they've
definitely been clear they're gonna
reduce the amount of cobalt
they're gonna find ways to increase that
battery energy density to allow more
lithium into the batteries and that will
increase the amount of charge it can
hold and we're gonna see them approach
they're already leading in
energy density they're gonna extend
their lead and they're gonna get there
they're gonna get to that 500 watt hours
per kilogram let's say Tesla's able to
use half the number of cells to make a
Model 3 that they're currently making
now let's leave aside everything else I
just say they're gonna make the same
Model 3 but they only have to use half
as many cells to get the same range that
means they have twice as many batteries
available which means they'll be able to
make twice as many cars it gets better
than that because once you get to the
point where you realize we only need
half as many cells you can engineer the
car differently you need less structure
to hold those batteries and it decreases
the weight of the vehicle so you
actually get more than more range with
half the batteries because you've
reduced the weight of the batteries and
you've reduced the weight of the
structure of the vehicle to hold those
batteries and so that means that you're
probably gonna see a Tesla Model 3 with
close to 400 miles of range with half
the battery cells and again that's gonna
allow Tesla to make twice as many cars
same thing with the model why this is
coming this is a couple years away two
three years away but this is coming
what's always the biggest hurdle for
Tesla and any company that's trying to
do is Tesla doing is production getting
the manufacturing down and then
increasing production getting more and
more batteries produced Tesla has been
limited by the number of batteries
produced they're not able to make any
more cars Elon said this at one point
that it doesn't matter whether they make
cyber trucks or model wise or model
freeze if they don't produce more
batteries they can't make more cars
overall the thing we're gonna be really
focused on is increasing battery
production capacity because the best
very fundamental because if you don't
improve battery production capacity then
you end up just shifting you to volume
for one part to another and you haven't
actually produced more electric vehicles
that's part of reason why we have not
for example really accelerated
production of that Tesla Semite because
it does use a lot of cells and unless
we've got a lot of battery cells
available accelerating production of the
test time I wouldn't necessarily be
making pure motor wiring so with the
acquisition of Maxwell technologies and
high bar and with all the work that the
tesla team is doing they are developing
ways
of making batteries themselves making
them faster making them better one of
the challenges when you manufacture
batteries is some of the cells end up
not being good and you have to improve
the quality of manufacturing so that you
have more good cells out of what you're
making but the biggest thing is just to
as everything Tesla does it's the
machine that builds the machine the
traditional T and where the greatest
potential is is building the machine
that makes the machine
you know it's building the factory and
really thinking of the factory like a
product you're going to try to create a
car by ordering a bunch of things on the
catalog we designed the car the way it
should be and then we maple either we
with working with suppliers make all of
those individual components the same
approach is the right approach to take
when building the machine maker that the
factory I actually think that the
potential for improvement in the machine
that makes the machine is a factor of 10
greater than the potential on the car
side Tesla is going to improve the
manufacturing methods they're gonna
further automate they're just gonna make
it so that they can produce more
batteries faster and by producing more
batteries faster they'll be able to
produce more cars and we will see more
Model threes we will see more model wise
we're seeing tracks cyber truck coming
soon and getting more batteries is
essential to being able to make the
Tesla semi which requires a lot of
batteries when you combine higher energy
density with longer battery life and
improved manufacturing volume what you
end up with is a lot of great options
for what you're gonna do going forward
what Tesla is going to do going forward
one option is to say you know what we're
just gonna make really long-range
vehicles we're gonna turn the Tesla
Model S into an 800-mile vehicle that
will last for five million miles you
could end up with a Tesla Model S with
an 800 mile battery pack that's able to
achieve eight thousand cycles which is
six point four million miles now if you
asked me once you get beyond one or two
million miles it becomes use
so the question is what else can you do
with these improvements in battery
chemistry what else can you do with this
improvement in battery life
well you can say you know what we don't
need to attain 5 or 6 million miles of
battery life we can increase the
discharge rate which in a vehicle like
say the Tesla Roadster would allow the
Roadster to accelerate even quicker we
can increase the charge rate which
allows the batteries to charge much
quicker if you increase the charge rate
you may be able to get those batteries
charged from 20 to 80 percent in just
five minutes you may be able to do the
full zero to a hundred in five minutes
and now the biggest complaint that we
hear people make about electric vehicles
as oh it takes too long to charge well
that may not be the future it may be
that we're able to charge them much
quicker in the future and that choice
that choice of increasing the ability to
discharge energy quickly and to charge
quickly means the battery life won't be
as long but if you're starting with an
eight with a with an eight thousand
cycle life and you put these limits on
it and you only get to a four thousand
cycle life but you have a 600 mile
battery pack you're still getting 2.4
million miles of life on a Tesla
Roadster with a 600 mile battery pack
you can see a Tesla Model 3 with 700
miles of range or you could see a Tesla
Model 3 with 350 miles of range but much
less cost to manufacture and a lot more
of them you could take the higher energy
density battery pack and allow the Model
3 to have a higher charge rate and a
higher discharge rate and then what you
would see is that yes instead of getting
you have your 700 mile battery pack that
could conceivably go out eight thousand
cycles or five million miles we're gonna
compromise that battery life to improve
performance and to improve charge speed
so you're able to charge that Tesla
Model 3 battery pack in five minutes or
so you're able to go from zero to 60 in
three seconds personally I don't think
performance is going to be a critical
feature in the future of EVs
I think in the future of EVs we're
talking about Robo taxis and I think the
most exciting thing is when we're
heading towards the future I'm gonna
make a video about this down the road
about the future of single passenger
lightweight pod cars they might have a
25 a 20 or 25 kilowatt hour battery pack
but they're very lightweight so that
carries you a long way they're
lightweight because it's basically just
the skate and a arguably just recyclable
plastic shell because they never get the
crashes it would be able to charge
extremely fast to be very small they
take up less space on the road maybe
hyper-efficient you might have a city
car that's optimized for city driving
you might have a highway version a
long-distance version that's optimized
for long-distance travel where it's
lower more aerodynamic and it's geared
for higher speeds so altogether we have
a very exciting future with Tesla's new
battery technology we're going to learn
a lot more about this on battery day on
April assuming battery day goes ahead I
think the the current pan panic in the
United States over infectious disease
has changed how people are thinking
about things so maybe we're not going to
see it as quickly as we'd like but as
far as we can see Tesla is going
full-bore ahead with its research and
development of these technologies and we
are going to hear fairly soon about a
gigafactory
producing tesla batteries my prediction
is that at some point with the success
of the model why tesla decides they
don't need to produce the Model X
anymore and they use the space currently
taken up in Fremont for building Model X
they use that space for battery
production it could be that they use
that space for something else and that
can produce batteries somewhere else you
can see with Giga Shanghai how
efficiently they've laid out the
manufacturing space to improve the
process to lower the cost of
manufacturing and improve the speed of
manufacturing we're gonna see something
very similar with Tesla's battery
production coming very soon one of the
most important things that Elon has
stated as a goal and is very clearly a
goal is reducing the cost per kilowatt
hour of these battery packs continue to
improve the cost per kilowatt hour of
the batteries
because a very fundamental and extremely
difficult it's actually one of the big
advantages of the lithium iron phosphate
battery chemistry is it doesn't involve
cobalt it does have higher weight or
lower energy density in the battery pack
but it doesn't involve cobalt which
makes it a lot less expensive so there's
a few things that Tesla is going to do
to dramatically reduce the cost per
kilowatt hour one is just producing a
higher volume you get economies of scale
to is tweaking chemistry so the NMC
eight one one uses a lower proportion of
cobalt so for applications where they're
going to be using the nickel manganese
cobalt eighty percent ten percent ten
percent formulation the cost of cobalt
goes down and that makes the cost of
batteries less expensive on top of that
we have technologies we don't really
know a lot about from high bar and
maxwell that may further reduce the cost
per kilowatt hour right now Tesla's
approaching 100 dollars a kilowatt hour
coming the cost of battery technology is
coming down close to a hundred dollars
per kilowatt hour it seems reasonable
that we will see Tesla get down to maybe
eighty dollars a kilowatt hour but again
with the different types of batteries
that Tesla may be using I think we're
gonna see different applications so the
lithium iron phosphate appears to be the
least expensive format I think we'll be
seeing a lot of a lot of the shorter
range vehicles will start using lithium
iron phosphate this is I'm not saying I
know I'm just saying this is what I
think makes sense is Tesla wants to
produce vehicles in volume so it's
important to produce more and more
batteries see ATL is clearly going to
increase their output at some point
Tesla is going to be making their own
batteries they already have lines using
certain chemistry's particularly nickel
cobalt aluminum so it's unlikely that
Tesla will stop any of their existing
lines they've already expressed that
they think it's important to continue
producing lines that are efficient and
effective fifteen lines you know
for a long time and in a world where
self supply is fueling growth like all
part of the field of growth I don't see
a reason to turn that sells fly off I
think we're gonna see Tesla adding new
lines of battery production in different
places they may rely on C ATL and China
to produce lithium iron phosphate it's
likely that they will find another place
to produce batteries my own prediction
and this is kind of an out-there
prediction is that Tesla will stop
producing the Model X that the model of
Y will basically replace the Model X the
Model X is expensive to produce it's
difficult to produce and it takes up a
lot of space in a factory then that
space can be used for producing
something else now whether it's used to
produce batteries or something else I
don't know Elon is clearly talking about
opening more Giga factories in different
places and an important part of that
will be producing more batteries so it's
likely that we are going to see a
variety of batteries that Tesla's going
to use the other thing I should mention
is when some batteries run out of
usefulness in the cars it makes a lot of
sense to continue using those batteries
for grid storage that the demands of
grid storage are less than the demands
of vehicles and it's likely that Tesla
will find a way to take a batteries out
of a vehicle let's lay the batteries
down to 90 percent capacity and that
vehicles driven a lot of miles and is no
longer is maybe somewhat obsolete
compared to whatever is new at that time
as part of recycling the materials in
that vehicle you take the batteries out
and you can apply them in grid storage
it might not be part of power pack or
mega pack it might be some future
product that Tesla puts out that uses
the recycled battery material uses those
recycled batteries to create a grid
storage product that cost less because
you're using batteries that have already
been paid for it I'm very excited about
the future with Tesla I know we're going
through a difficult time now but we're
gonna come through it test is gonna come
through at Tesla as a great cash cushion
thanks to that capital raise we are
going to see Tesla taking the lead in
the automotive industry making it
particularly with battery technology
with self-driving technology Tesla is
taking lead in so many ways over-the-air
updates etc we are going to see
tremendous improvements in automotive
transportation in America and the world
let's stay excited about it let's look
forward to the future thank you very
much for watching if you like what
you've seen here please subscribe please
let us let me know what you think in the
comments and I want to stress very soon
I'm gonna do a new video about pod cars
I think this is the biggest thing going
forward in the future is we're gonna see
a future of these one passenger maybe
two passenger cars people do prefer to
drive in their cars mostly adults I mean
the average number occupants in a car I
think is like 1.2 and maybe with us Hana
me maybe look at 1.4 maybe that's even
goes there that are much more
lightweight much more efficient I'm very
excited about that future stay tuned
it's gonna be amazing you know again I
know we're in difficult times when I'm
making this video but our future is very
bright I'm always optimistic about the
future and I want us to all stay
optimistic yeah we've got we're hitting
a bump in the road right now but Tesla's
gonna plow through it SpaceX is gonna
plow through it and we're gonna plow
through it and our future is gonna be
fantastic thanks for watching